So that's our website right here.
I'm on the customers page that we created in the last module and if we look at the code right here,
for example for this image, then we can see,
let me drag this up a bit,
then we can see that we applied a width of 100% to this image.
Now we could argue it's not occupying 100% of this space,
that's true
and you probably know why this is the case, because this image is part of this container right here and
this container has a width of 65%
and apparently this width, the 65%, refers to this div right here, as we can see, this div
seems to have a width of 100%, we can see it right there
and because of that, our image only has 65% of width.
So if I drag it around, we can see the image increases and decreases, the image size.
However as you can see already, this was a lot of guessing of probably and it should refer to this and
that element
and as you can imagine, CSS
is not about
it should do something like that, in this course,
we want to understand why things are behaving the way they behave and how we can change this behavior,
because of that, we have to take a closer look at this percentage behavior in this module and we have
to understand what is actually the element that this percentage relates to.
So that's the first thing I wanted to show you, we have this percentage applied
and because of that, our website is a bit more dynamic.
However if you look at the font size, for example right here, you help me set her up,
you can see this size doesn't change if I increase the width.
Why should it?
It's still readable.
However if I zoom in into our website, like that, you can see that the font size increases significantly.
Now you could say this is clear because if somebody cannot read the text, he can increase the size
and I would totally agree
but I will also say that with this behavior, we totally give the browser the chance to decide how our
side should be zoomed and how the different elements on our side should be zoomed.
And I don't think that's a good idea because although we want to allow our users to increase the font
size for example, we want to make sure that the general look, so that the proportions between the different
font sizes for example are still met. Therefore working like this, with the pixels like we did it so far,
if we inspect that, we only have pixels right here, if I scroll down, you can see we have a font size of
20 pixels.
So using a fixed font size of pixels and letting the browser zoom do the work is not the best idea.
Let's maybe also change the default font size,
we found that menu already in one of the earlier modules of this course, so if we go right here to Chrome
and preferences, then we have here in this appearance menu the option to change the default font size.
At the moment,
this is medium, the recommended one.
Now if I change this to very large for example, you can see this already increases the font size on this
side right here
but on our website, well this only affects parts of the fonts. As you can see the font size here in the
nav bar increased, the same thing is true for our footer right here
but this text right here didn't change at all
and this makes sense because as you just saw, we defined a font size of 20 pixels for this text.
So how should it increase? For the elements in the nav bar and in the footer for example right here,
we didn't define any font size.
So what happens right here is that as soon as the visitor of our website increases the font size, the
default font size will also be increased based on these default settings.
And now you could argue, well then everything is all right,
we don't have to apply any font sizing because it's all done by the browser settings.
And again that's probably not the behavior you want to have because we're going to have different font
sizes on our website and at the same time, we want to allow the visitor to display the website with
the default font size of his choice though.
So as we can see, with fixed pixels, this wasn't possible, with not applying any font size, it's also not
possible because each font will have the same size then.
So let's maybe go back to the settings and change it back to medium as a first step, like that, now it looks
better again
and let's then find out if we have more units available which might allow us to be a little bit more
flexible and this flexibility refers to font size but also to the general sizing of our elements.
But because as we already saw, we applied the percentage, the value already to size our image for example
but we didn't totally understand what drives this percentage value and what it refers to.
Additionally, there might be alternatives to percentages
so it might make sense to also have a look at these.